README.md, before:

1. Clone both microservices (this usersmsa and [contentsmsa](https://github.com/skvsbk/contentsmsa.git)) to run docker.

2. Run docker compose to run mysql server, kafka broker and zookeeper. Make sure you you enter the correct address and port for KAFKA_ADVERTISED_LISTENERS in docker-compose.yml. Also please check django.env for use correct addresses and ports. (Despite the fact that .env with sensitive data should not be uploaded to public github repositories, .env with test data are issued to check the performance of services in a test environment) 

3. Create a database in terminal
``` bash
$ mysql -u root -p -h 192.168.2.42 -P3306

mysql> CREATE DATABASE uit_msa;

mysql> exit;
```

4. In the terminal from the usersmsa directory, run the docker application (or just run script ___run.sh___)

``` bash
$ docker build -t usersmsa_img .

$ docker run --rm --name usersmsa -p 8200:8000 -it usersmsa_img
``` 

5. Create application database and superuser inside the container

``` bash
$ docker exec -it usermsa bash

root@131f47d9d234:/app$ python manage.py migrate

root@131f47d9d234:/app$ python manage.py createsuperuser

root@131f47d9d234:/app$ exit
```

6. In the terminal from the uit_contentmsa directory, run the docker application (or just run script ___run.sh___)
   
``` bash
$ docker build -t contentmsa_img .

$ docker run -d --rm --network host --name contentmsa -it contentmsa_img
```

7. Fill the database with posts from [https://jsonplaceholder.typicode.com/posts](https://jsonplaceholder.typicode.com/posts) and with authors [https://jsonplaceholder.typicode.com/users](https://jsonplaceholder.typicode.com/users) by script filldb.py (make sure you enter the correct address and port). Filling the database will take place through microservices.

8. Project block diagram
![ ](/project.png)

9. Open in browser:
    - [http://127.0.0.1:8200/admin](http://127.0.0.1:8200/admin) to login in admin panel
    - [http://127.0.0.1:8200/users](http://127.0.0.1:8200/users) to get all users
    - [http://127.0.0.1:8200/posts](http://127.0.0.1:8200/posts) to get all posts
    - [http://127.0.0.1:8200/posts/1](http://127.0.0.1:8200/posts/1) to get one post with id = 1
    - [http://127.0.0.1:8200/authors/1](http://127.0.0.1:8200/authors/1) to all posts by author with id = 1
    - [http://127.0.0.1:8200/authors/posts](http://127.0.0.1:8200/authors/posts) to all posts by all authors

    - For create user use POST request to [http://127.0.0.1:8200/users](http://127.0.0.1:8200/users)
    - For create post use POST request to [http://127.0.0.1:8200/posts](http://127.0.0.1:8200/posts)
    - For update or delete post use PUT or DELETE requests [http://127.0.0.1:8200/posts/1](http://127.0.0.1:8200/posts/1)

Commit message:

Make token authentication. Only authorized people can use the service. Only owners can edit and delete posts.

README.md, after:

1. Clone both microservices (this usersmsa and [contentsmsa](https://github.com/skvsbk/contentsmsa.git)) to run docker.

2. Run docker compose to run mysql server, kafka broker and zookeeper. Make sure you you enter the correct address and port for KAFKA_ADVERTISED_LISTENERS in docker-compose.yml. Also please check django.env for use correct addresses and ports. (Despite the fact that .env with sensitive data should not be uploaded to public github repositories, .env with test data are issued to check the performance of services in a test environment) 

3. Create a database in terminal
``` bash
$ mysql -u root -p -h 192.168.2.42 -P3306

mysql> CREATE DATABASE uit_msa;

mysql> exit;
```

4. In the terminal from the usersmsa directory, run the docker application (or just run script ___run.sh___)

``` bash
$ docker build -t usersmsa_img .

$ docker run --rm --name usersmsa -p 8200:8000 -it usersmsa_img
``` 

5. Create application database and superuser inside the container

``` bash
$ docker exec -it usermsa bash

root@131f47d9d234:/app$ python manage.py migrate

root@131f47d9d234:/app$ python manage.py createsuperuser

root@131f47d9d234:/app$ python manage.py drf_create_token <your superyouser>

root@131f47d9d234:/app$ exit
```

6. In the terminal from the uit_contentmsa directory, run the docker application (or just run script ___run.sh___)
   
``` bash
$ docker build -t contentmsa_img .

$ docker run -d --rm --network host --name contentmsa -it contentmsa_img
```

7. Fill the database with posts from [https://jsonplaceholder.typicode.com/posts](https://jsonplaceholder.typicode.com/posts) and with authors [https://jsonplaceholder.typicode.com/users](https://jsonplaceholder.typicode.com/users) by script filldb.py (make sure you enter the correct address, port and superuser credentials). Filling the database will take place through microservices.

8. Project block diagram
![ ](/project.png)

9. Open in browser:
    - [http://127.0.0.1:8200/admin](http://127.0.0.1:8200/admin) to login in admin panel
    - [http://127.0.0.1:8200/users](http://127.0.0.1:8200/users) to get all users
    - [http://127.0.0.1:8200/posts](http://127.0.0.1:8200/posts) to get all posts
    - [http://127.0.0.1:8200/posts/1](http://127.0.0.1:8200/posts/1) to get one post with id = 1
    - [http://127.0.0.1:8200/authors/1](http://127.0.0.1:8200/authors/1) to all posts by author with id = 1
    - [http://127.0.0.1:8200/authors/posts](http://127.0.0.1:8200/authors/posts) to all posts by all authors

    - For create user use POST request to [http://127.0.0.1:8200/users](http://127.0.0.1:8200/users)
    - For create post use POST request to [http://127.0.0.1:8200/posts](http://127.0.0.1:8200/posts)
    - For update or delete post use PUT or DELETE requests [http://127.0.0.1:8200/posts/1](http://127.0.0.1:8200/posts/1)
